all right folks welcome back this is
episode number 10 of the 2022 ICT
mentorship for the YouTube channel this
lecture is going to be teaching
implementing economic calendar events
with the
open all right so the economic calendar
many of you probably don't even consider
looking at this but it's important if
you're going to be learning how to
speculate study these markets certainly
if you're ever going to consider putting
live funds
in you really want to know what this
calendar says for the day you're going
to be trading otherwise you could be
surprised unfortunately adversely with a
sudden Rush of volatility that you
wouldn't otherwise
expect this is Thursday's economic
calendar for Thursday February
17th and not all of these things are
going to be Heavy Hitters for stock
indices
but most of them are and what I'm
showing here is what I teach all my
students I go to forexfactory.com I use
their economic calendar it's not the
only one you can use it's whatever you
like I like the color scheme they use
it's just a personal preference you can
pick any economic calendar they're all
going to pretty much say the same
thing
here the medium impact events are like
orange low impact are yellow and
anything that's red which is not being
shown here here would be like a high
impact news
driver so when we look at these stock
indices the reason why I teach you 8:30
in the morning like that's your
beginning time to start looking at or
crosshairs time the news embargo lifts
at this time at 8:30 typically there's a
bunch of news events that are being
ushered into the marketplace at that
time now some of these reports or
speeches or data points they may may
be used as a smokees screen they may be
used as a catalyst to have price go up
or down at the time of their
release other instances like I'm going
to teach tonight usually there's going
to
be a
buildup or a dropping down in price
right before the report comes out and
then the real move starts to ensue okay
so it'll make more sense as I get into
the actual
teachings okay so we're looking at the
NASDAQ daily chart this is the trading
view continuous charts that way you'll
know what I'm looking at here it's the
one we've been working with in this
mentorship so the daily chart when I'm
talking about power three a lot of
comments came in the previous video
mentioning how it was confusing to them
because obviously they're they're new
they just found me they don't know what
I'm talking about when I say power three
I actually have a teaching in the
YouTube channel so you can look it up
and study it but I'll give you a little
bit more amplification here also kind of
like help bridge the gaps in your
understanding about daily bias because
if I could tell
you what was the most
requested
question over the years since I've been
mentoring people without a doubt
absolutely without a doubt the number
one question I get is ICT can you please
teach me the daily bias can you tell me
if it's going to be an up day or a down
day and I'm going to teach you
here and this is my honest to God's
truth okay I'm never going to be able to
do it any easier than this okay you just
have to study price action and you'll
see it for yourself after a while but
this is really all I teach my students
and it is nothing more secret to it it's
this is it okay it's just the brass tax
of looking at what the daily range is
likely to form so right away we're at
the daily chart and as I mentioned in
the previous episode I outlined this
High here and this low and that was the
range we were within and the 50 level
was equilibrium so again above
equilibrium is what the premium market
and Below 50% is a discount market so we
traded back up into the top end of the
range between this low and this high and
between these two levels here remember I
gave you this low and this High that's
that's a imbalance okay it's a fair
value
Gap this Market was down in a discount
initially after we had the indecisive
candle go back and watch the ninth
episode you haven't watched that one yet
and you're watching this one it's going
to feel like even more
confusion but we had an indecisive
candle here and we were in a discount
even though I believe and I've been
telling my own students that I believe
we're going to clean out these lows down
here we went to a discount relative to
the dealing range between this high and
that low so below it we're at discount
and we have an imbalance so it's likely
to do what go back up and rebalance this
before going back
down listen to what I said in the
episode number nine I said even
if we trade back up into this range
there's trades you can take even if we
believe that it's going to go below
those
lows that's me tipping my hand to you
I'm not trying to provide you signals
I'm not going to tell you Buy Here Sell
Here put your stop here take your I'm
not I'm not doing that in the community
tab on my YouTube
channel probably once a week I'm going
to point out something in the chart
right before it happens and I want you
to try to study
it you may not be able to see it real
time you may miss it come to the YouTube
channel after work or
whatever maybe you're sleeping and you
couldn't see it at the time but still go
through your charts using the
information I'm providing you I get
asked all the time can you please put a
date and time reference in the post I
forget I I try to remember doing it when
I wake up if I'm going to post
anything but something happens and I see
in the chart and I Hur most I want to
put everything in the post and I I
forgot it so I apologize for that it's a
work in progress folks so if we look at
the reference points of it being in a
premium Market or a discount Market but
then we have this imbalance and we have
a bias that and it's likely to go down
and take out these lows so what have we
said here in short the Market's been
going lower yes we took out some sell
stops below this low with the sell side
liquidity being taken out here then a
natural retracement which is reasonable
then we start the decline then we come
back up one more time failure swing
doesn't go above that high and then it
breaks down and it creates an imbalance
when it takes out this shortterm
low wow that's kind of like the model
I'm teaching you yes now what's the
framework here we rallied broke below a
short-term low with the model suggesting
that these lows may be taken out so any
Rally or up Clos candle or
candles should be viewed as a potential
shorting
candidate now ring in the imbalance
we traded up into the imbalance one more
day we swept above it not by
much then the next day we open we rall
just a little bit and then
plunge we took out the previous day low
and the day before it's low so both of
these daily lows have been cleaned out
now this one is the next
one then down
here so when I talk about power three
I'm specifically dealing with this time
frame the daily
chart if you consider where the Market
opens say this is the opening price in
the daily range if you're expecting it
to go down or maybe you weren't
expecting it to go down you just looking
at the price in your chart and you see
that the open was here it rallied a
little bit then it went down and then
closed near the low now that's a rather
simplistic overview just making it very
plain nothing terribly exciting about
that but when you really start to
consider it it is really exciting
because this is the market right here if
you understand this and you can study a
daily chart daily bias will become
easier for you if you start implementing
it with this mindset so if we're bearish
okay if we're bearish on a market we're
going to anticipate the daily ranges or
each one of these candles doing this
very thing here open a rally not much of
a rally but it can make a large Wick it
doesn't make a difference but the
general premise is it goes up just to go
down and it closes down near its low
when it's bearish obviously this would
be reversed where the open would be down
here near the low and the close would be
near the high of the daily candle if
it's bullish but not every single candle
in a series of the entire price swing is
going to be all up closed candles when
you're bullish
conversely not every candle is going to
be a down closed candle when you're
bearish but I've already taught you when
you have these sustained price swings on
the higher time frame you're not seeing
a lot of up closed candles when it's
bearish and you're not seeing a lot of
down Clos candles when it's
bullish but contrast that with what you
may be feeling when you're looking at
price you'll make a big deal out of one
down day when you've been bullish and it
completely takes you out of your game oh
I can't determine bias I don't know
what's going on this is always tricking
me I felt that too in the 90s I know
what it feels like but let's take a
closer look at
this this is the chart that I used to
trade back in
1992 the classic open high low and close
bar which is what I'm showing you here
now with this chart it made perfect
sense to me and if my eyes were not as
poor Poe as they are now because I'm I'm
aging and I've been looking at computer
screens for 30 plus years now it's warm
them down so obviously candlesticks are
a much more preferred way of looking at
it because it's thicker you can see the
the open and close relationship as I'm
teaching you here a lot easier versus
this you have to strain to see where the
open is on this candle is to the left of
the cand or not it's not even a candle
it's a bar so to the left of the bar is
the open it trades down creates the low
rallies up and closes near the high see
that same thing here it opens trades
down goes up and closes above the
opening but in the upper portion of the
daily range then we have a high where it
doesn't really matter where it closes
then it's likely to do what come back
and rebalance this it'll make sense in a
moment it opens here small little rally
up creates this very thing here on this
day it opens small little rally up and
then down overlapping this daily
bar if we look at this relationship over
here we have this one single pass with
that bar range between this candle's low
and this candle's High that's our fair
value
Gap the market can trade back up into it
and look where it closes right on the
highs in the next candle it's back and
forth works both sides of the range but
what is our bias what did I hint at the
bias is bearish we're looking for these
lows to be taken out so the only thing
we were doing was coming back up to
rebalance this then go
lower so once we went back to the top of
the range did this candle or bar touch
this candle or bars low no just fell
short of
it
this wiped back and forth so now this
range here is completely balanced so
there's no reason for this price to hang
around now it could have went a little
bit higher today and I was waiting for
that to potentially happen but I've not
abandoned my bearishness for price to go
down here all my students know
that this movement here we have the open
the rally up fade it comes back down and
closes on the low that's this pattern
right here power three is accumulation
manipulation distribution okay that's
the three components the power asset ECT
is if you understand those relationships
on what the daily range is doing the
open on a day that's bearish okay the
open and anything above it that is
accumulation of
shorts now it's not limited to just open
and above that's the that's where smart
money and people like myself and my
students that's where we're aiming to
enter good and
short it can be whatever the range is
this is important because my students
are actually going to smile when they
get this is
too the open to the high whatever that
range is you take that range and you
subtract it from the opening price that
is your opening
range that's where your fair value gaps
that's where your stop raids are going
to happen that's where optimal trade
entry is going to happen every potential
shorting
candidate whatever system approach that
I teach even in my paid
mentorship every premium array okay okay
that's what I teach it as every single
one of them will reside and form in the
range between the open and its high in
other words if you're watching price and
you're bearish the day opens up and then
it rallies up that's a Judah swing the
range from the opening price up to that
high that range is what you project
below the opening price that is your
opening range when I say opening range
that's opening range so what that does
is gives me
a an area at which to bracket out how
much leeway I can give the market when
it starts to go below the opening price
and still take a favorable entry because
power three is I'm bearish I'm expecting
the market to open and rally above if I
can get something on short there that's
the ideal scenario but I may not be able
to do it or I may take a trade early or
just take a trade and I get stopped out
it's going to happen but then it breaks
down below the opening price does that
completely ruin the day for me sometimes
it it'll just tear off and I can't catch
it doesn't give me a setup and I just
miss it and you can't chase it and don't
worry about it but don't be upset go
back in your back testing and you'll see
that there's lots of opportunities
coming in just below the opening price
this is called close proximity entries
this is what I promised in this
mentorship on YouTube teaching you in
the mentorship
community I already know most of you
that have recently found me and there's
been a lot of you that just came on I
appreciate all of you joining me
but you don't know all the things that
I've been teaching on this YouTube
channel so you feel like you're drinking
from a fire hose right now and it can
feel like it's tearing your face off
because it's so much information all at
one time and leaves your head spinning
like this guy keeps talking I don't
understand get to the point the point is
you need to have layered understanding
and if you're not going to be patient
and go through the content properly I'm
not going to help you I'm going to
frustrate you and you'll probably come
back to me later on and then learn
properly and wish you would have stayed
in did it the right way the first time
but that's for you to determine on your
own having the opening
range when you're bearish whatever the
high is from the opening project that
down your cell setups are going to form
in that that is accumulation of
shorts the manipulation is the initial
rally up that's the sucker play that's
typically the breakout artist thinking
oh it's going to go higher no it only
goes up just to go down that that's a
fake run then it goes lower creates the
low of the day and then closes near the
low of the day so between where the low
of the day is and where it closes that's
distribution what's being
distributed smart monies short positions
so they're selling at the open and above
or just below
it riding out the daily range when it
creates the low of the day how do you
know when the low of the day is formed
well I've taught you
time references so if price has been
really taking a a beating going lower
and you're getting towards the end of
the day like 330 you know 345 something
like that it's probably really close to
the low not all the time sometimes it
creates a real fast sudden continuation
and if you're not expecting it or if
you're offside it can be bad but if it's
on side it's really fun to be a part of
that but generally it's the last portion
of the trading day and it'll create some
kind of a low and then wherever it
closes between that low and where it
closes that's where the distribution
cycle is occurring that part is not that
important the main thing is
understanding what does this candle have
the highest probability in terms of
forming an open rally sell off and close
down on its low or is it likely to
create an opening trade lower first then
rally and close near the highs take the
let's take the close out okay I don't
want you thinking you have to know or be
able to predict the closing price that's
more advanced you don't even need that
to be profitable you just need to know
is this daily range more likely to
expand higher or lower than the opening
price that's it that's all you have to
do that's the key to bias now how do you
know what the bias is going to be most
likely not everyday bias most likely
what's the bias going to be well let's
go back to this low over
here it creates a swing low that means a
low with a higher low to the right of it
and a higher low to the left of it so
it's three candles that make up a swing
low you do not need a Williams fractal
that's way too many candles and you've
missed the move okay you don't need that
no disrespect for the gentleman but
that's nonsense you don't need that okay
you only need three candles once you get
a swing low or swing high and you have
the proper context and you know what
you're looking for that's it you go in
there you start hunting it now watch
what
happens we have a swing low form the
very next candle we have an opening it
trades way down and then comes back up
and closes right near the highs is that
the opposite of this
candle yeah but it's got a whole lot of
movement below the opening price so
something just took place down
here after this swing low was formed did
this candle or bar go lower than that
one no I promise I'm going to switch the
candles but I just want to show you from
this perspective because this is what we
were forced to learn on back in the old
days okay back in the dinosaur time
so the rallying up on this candle here
and closing on the high that supports
this as a swing low because it didn't
take out the lower low right here in the
middle between this low and this low
this is the lowest low of the three
candles or Price
bars the next day we have a big wash out
from the open trading down and then it
closed on the high so the next day we're
likely to go what into this area here
isn't that a fair value Gap sure sure it
is what's the daily bias likely to be
bullish so that means it's going to do
the opposite of this it's going to open
near the low and then rally and expand
higher will it close on the high I don't
know it could but I don't need it to I
only need it to open and start to rally
and get up in this area here that's an
opportunity that's a trade does it do it
yes but now when we trade it up into
this area look what happens next day you
might be expecting an open rally close
High it doesn't give you that so that
could be a day where you missed an
opportunity or you took a a loss no
problem next trading day here what are
we seeing we're seeing the market
retrace back down into this run how far
can it go down well look at your high
down to your low equilibrium it's
probably going to go below equilibrium
to do what to offer the market a
discount the market does what it goes
down below it provides a discount once
it gets there our mind we're thinking
it's going to be the opposite of this
it's going to be to open near the low
and expand higher that's power three
it's going to be accumulation of Longs
at the low and then rally
higher we have it right there it opens
near the low rally and closes on the
high the next day same thing opens on
the low rallies and closes on the high
now we've gone deeper into this area
here and in a small little range but
it's still the same function of power
three accumulation which is open near
the low trade down and then close high
on the daily range next candle same
thing it opens trades down accumulates
Longs trades higher same thing here
what's this it opens trades down trades
higher until we do what we take out this
short-term High see that then we can get
a retracement lower or
consolidation we get both small little
retracement and consolidation next
candle power three delivering for
accumulation of Longs next candle
consolidation might be a day you took a
loss let's be real next candle what's
the bias what are these over here
they're relative equal highs there's
stops resting above that that's buy side
liquidity what's it drawing up to we've
already taken out this High what's going
to go up to here likely right because
we've already taken out sell stops below
here with this drop and we keep proving
it's going higher so where's it likely
to go above here so until we get to that
point we keep thinking the opposite of
what we're showing here an open near the
low and close on the high power three
accumulation of Longs distribution of
Longs at the close the next day
indecisive candle okay no big deal next
candle we open trade down same thing
we're looking for buys the whole time
we're looking for Buys in here you might
get stopped out you might have a losing
trade but you're not abandoning the
bullish bias until we get above these
highs then we have to study it does it
want to run higher once it clears these
highs does it keep showing and want to
go higher well we had a nice run here
here the next candle here nice run here
small little IND decisive candle there
but then we go back in the same cycle
again it's expanding and it's
accelerating higher each day we're
looking for Longs opening near the low
trades below the opening a little bit
then rallies and closes near the high
that's bias that's sticking to your bias
and the same thing is done over here on
opposite we have imbalance
here and I promise after this I'll
change it to candlesticks your eyes are
probably going nuts right now
fair value Gap we trade up into it so
once we trade into it what are we
expecting the market to do what trade
back lower so if we're trading back
lower we're going to be looking for this
pattern open rally accumulation of
shorts distribution at the lows what are
you Distributing the short positions
they've accumulated above or at the
opening price so in this candle what do
we have we have the open it rallies up
to go short and then trades down closes
on the low just like this this here see
that the next candle You're Expecting
the same thing does it deliver that no
you might take a loss that day too okay
no big deal it's likely to go
where here's where the sell side is
now each candle open rally close down on
low open rally close down on the low
open way back into this one and then
still closes lower than the open but
still nice range down same thing here
opens rallies sells off next candle
opens sells off then comes back and
overlaps it and now we have a potential
key reversal then we have back and forth
price action where you can probably get
beat
up inbalance it trades up into
that and then we go into that area where
we're at now so let's go to a
Candlestick and it's a lot easier to see
it this way but this function of Power
Three is how I teach the bias and I also
teach how to submit to the Daily range
you have to learn how to hold to the
close if you're going to just
trade and you're not really
participating in uh the sustained moves
that's made available in these daily
ranges like today I mean look at this
move here that's nice many of you
probably took shorts maybe maybe some of
you took Longs I got some people putting
comments in the previous video saying
you know I saw a pair value up at this
price at this time for a bullish it's
not bullish we're not bu we're our bias
is not bullish it's bearish it's already
traded to the top end of that fair value
got and it's likely to go lower now
taking out this cell side and attacking
the cell side over here
okay all right let's drop down to an
hourly chart and that fair value Gap the
high and the low levels that's what's
being shown here right there and these
annotations are obviously from what you
saw on the episode 9 so Watch What
Happens the market trades down find some
support at the low end of the fair value
Gap then rallies back up to the high end
of the fair value Gap and then
breaks right before midnight on the 17th
and then we consolidate trade back up
into what what is this what's this right
here it's a fair value G price goes up
rebalances that there and it's doing it
what time a
day not New York it's overnight European
London session that's is how you can use
that model the same model you can use it
in Asian session you ain't going to get
a lot of movement CU it's typically not
a lot of movement in that time of day
but you can trade it in London clothes
you can trade it in obviously the New
York open like I'm teaching you and
London open London open if you know what
you're doing with a daily bias you can
catch enormous moves enormous moves but
sometimes you're going to have to weigh
out a lot of give and take back and
forth kind of like today where the
market rebalanced here and then
consolidated waited for a little bit of
a push higher then the news came out
okay so I'm kind of hopefully clear that
up for you
now all right 15minute time frame I'm
take a look at this imbalance here we
rode up into that rebalancing all this
movement down remember that paint roller
analogy I gave you the paint was applied
to the wall going down but if all this
movement was
given to that one single candle there's
going to be little porous places in
prices
between the high and the low where the
market wasn't efficiently offered for
buyers there wasn't much time and back
and forth pricing to give buyers an
opportunity to get in there and
participate so an efficient market we'll
see the market go back up and repic that
so it's down and then right back up like
paint being applied to a roller on a
wall you want to make sure you go back
and forth to deposit the paint evenly so
there's an even distribution so again
the background of this chart that's the
wall and every one of these candles is a
paint roller and whenever you see these
big long drawn out candles there's a
strong tendency not all the time but
there's a strong tendency for the price
to go right back up and overlap over
that that entire
range same thing over here we have the
market drop down creates a fair value
Gap here doesn't it take out some lows
over here yes there's displacement and
then you can have an order to get in
short here but then watch what happens
this little pump up that might be scary
it could have stopped you out if it went
higher that's the risk in this folks I'm
not going to give you a silver bullet
that removes losing trades I lose trades
too you're going to miss moves I miss
moves okay you're going to read it wrong
I read it wrong sometimes okay I'm not
perfect but I'm giving you tools and
processes to help you determine where
the most likely scenario is going to be
and then you just work those statistical
odds and hopefully with sound money
management which I'll cover which will
hopefully get you to the Winter Circle
more often than
not all right so we have the morning
session starting before 8:30 we have a
rally up and then it breaks
lower in this area here we're going to
have to drop down to a lower time frame
but before I do I want to give you a
little bit more
details think about what I've taught you
so far in this teaching for power 3
the accumulation manipulation and
distribution cycle of the daily range if
we are trading near the high end of that
fair value gap on the daily chart that's
what that level is okay when we just
drop down to a lower time frame chart so
with this 15minute time frame chart and
I apologize the chart's a little bit
shifted it's still the same chart I just
added the
annotations the idea is we're
expecting
this power three formation where it's
open rally create the high of the day
sell off and close near the low that's
what we're looking for why would that
bias be expected on this day because we
worked the upper end of that fair value
gap on the daily chart then we had
multiple shifts in Market structure
bearishly when we already have a bearish
bias on the daily chart anyway so it
gives you a high probability that this
day is going to be a down close day it
may not close on the low it might just
be a big down move
and that's all you need you just need
movement
so this level here it's Dash that's the
midnight New York opening
price this is what I'm referring to when
I'm looking at the opening or power
three on a daily chart that price right
there at midnight look what's occurring
that right there is equivalent to this
little tick on this diagram here it
opens it trades above the opening just
like that candle does on a daily chart
it opens and goes is higher you want to
be selling short here why would you want
to go short here well it went back up in
the air and redelivered the down stroke
on that paintbrush or or roller on the
wall well now it's going back up when
it's going up like that it feels
unnatural to go short like you don't
want to sell short it's like this
thing's going up why would I want to go
in there and go short that's the benefit
of studying old data and then reading
price studying it real time and without
taking any demo trades without trying to
pick the you know the targets forget all
that you want to practice for months
reading the tape studying price action
watching it even if you have to watch it
with trading views Market replay
function there's nothing inherently
wrong with it if that's all you have and
you can't watch it live but it is
alltogether something different and much
more beneficial if you can watch the
actual live data so as I mentioned in my
own paid mentorship I always counsel my
students to if they have the means to do
so invest in like like I have Cam Asia
Camtasia is what I use to make these
videos it's through techsmith and
techsmith you can Google them it's
pretty inexpensive it's easy platform to
use and I have had had wonderful results
with it I don't have any complaints I've
done all the upgrades every time they
have it it's just really
good if you have a job or if you have a
business that you're running or if you
go to school or if you just got to sleep
if if the time zones don't line up for
you you can set up a recording and just
let it record for 8 hours it'll do it
and as long as have space in your
computer it'll do it and then you can go
back and literally play that time real
time and watch the candle paint unlike
trading views replay function where it
doesn't give you the EB and flow of the
candlesticks forming it's just basically
the opening and then a closing of what
the candle did it's kind of clunky and
wooden it doesn't really give you that
uh organic feel of the candlesticks
actually forming real time whereas if
you recorded your screen doing it then
here it is
don't worry about your screen burn in
time either uh
Camtasia will record the screen if your
screen protector comes on and like goes
blank it'll still record the screen all
right
so we're looking at the opening price
here and then we're expecting a sell the
form well here's that fair value got it
rallies up into that isn't that a sell
above the opening price yep mhm sure is
from that opening price to that High
that's the highest high take that range
and subtract it from the opening price
that's about in this vicinity here okay
right in there so what's
occurring well we have this cell here
then we have this cell here at the open
at the equities opening and then we have
this imbalance in here so from this
Range High to that
low multiply that by
two as a projection other words whatever
that low is to that
high that much lower you'll expect to
see a short and it forms right here
that's exactly what I taught you I did
not cherry-pick that folks you can go
back and look at data as long as you can
find data on daily charts okay and if
you can get a intraday chart like an
hourly chart you'll see it it's there
but this is a 15-minute time frame
that's my bell weather chart that's what
I teach all my students this is the one
you go to for day trades and or scalps
you can find everything for intraday
trading on a 15-minute time frame if I
was held to a decision of what time
frame would you be forced to trade with
if you had to pick just one ICT the
15-minute time frame because I can I can
do anything with that 15minute time
frame I can swing trade I can short-term
trade I can day trade I can
scalp but you only need to have one
discipline one way of doing it and you
might not like the 15minute time frame
you might like the one minute chart if
you're trading indices but you have to
have the storyline of the 15-minute time
frame to get the full panoramic view of
what price is likely to do so with this
continued teaching here right below here
what's that at sell side liquidity
relative equal lows so you can test this
on your own chart I admitted it by
mistake I apologize but the low on this
candle here is
14381 even
okay don't take my word for it go look
at your own chart it's there so 14,
381 I would have preferred to include a
line projecting that out in time because
you'll see in a moment when we drop down
the lower time frame but the setups are
forming here above the opening price
right here near the opening price see
that and inside of the range from the
high to the opening projected down it's
in that vicinity there so it's giving
you another opportunity
so again what's occurred is we went up
into that fair value gap on the daily
chart we're back on the daily chart
again and we're anticipating the opening
and rallying up into
what maybe the high end of that fair
value Gap or something
forming at the news release at 8:30 but
if we look at price price was starting
to pump up higher ahead of the 8:30 news
release so what's that tipping its hand
to you telling you they're pricing in a
premium Market ahead of the news so
they're going to use the news to sink it
lower because the bearish bias is going
to come into to
fruition they're going to expand price
lower and they've already established
their shorts because they accumulated
above the opening price and we can see
that in the price action of each little
short-term rally up like we're looking
at here so here's 7:00 in the morning it
rallies above these relative equal highs
and cleans up the imbalance
here and look at that right there see
that remember what I told you if there's
two fair value gaps try to trade it in
here but anticipate and use the money
management to allow for your stock to
weather a run up into that and we got it
right there now strip it down to what I
taught you for the structure of the
trade or the
framework swing High broken to the
upside taking out buy stops so buy side
liquidity is taken then we have a swing
low it's broken did these candles come
down lethargically was it like a slow
meand or decline no it was sudden it was
a lot of momentum it was energetic you
can't miss those down closed candles
right there that's obvious they stand
out right so that's how you know you
have a shift in Market structure in this
area here it doesn't have a fair value
Gap that's okay this is only a 5-minute
chart this is where we started doing a
top down strip of 5 minute 4 minute 3
minute 2 minute 1 minute the first fair
value G we come to if we find one on a
four minute you don't need to go down to
a three you don't need to go down to a
two you don't need to go down to a one
if you go down to a four you don't see
one you go down to a three if you find
one there you don't go any
lower okay if you don't find one on the
five the four or the three and you go
down to the two minute and you find it
there that's it you don't go down to the
one minute
if you don't find it on a
two-minute and you do find it on a one
minute then there that's how you trade
it but what if you don't have one on the
one minute chart you don't have a trade
how's that for
logic so we have the continuation lower
off of a retracement in here now this
candle the high of it here I wish I
would have use a lighter color but this
candle's high is right there okay it
actually goes just above that one right
there not by much but it does but we
don't need that we don't need that Watch
What
Happens here's the 4minute
chart uh oh something different on this
chart ain't it we have bide liquidity
here the candles are a little bit more
beefier when we were looking at the
previous slide look at this one look at
the candles are look wonky don't
they but on this time frame they become
much more prominent more beefy much more
Stout like look at me I'm here take a
take a look at me that's what we're
looking for we're looking for clean
price action where we can see the nice
Candlestick
formations where we're seeing the even
distribution of the price going higher
or lower in this case going lower but
we're seeing that little
break where there's not an even
distribution of price that's the fair
value got so we have that run above byet
liquidity after rebalancing over here it
goes above it and it breaks down so we
have an idea okay we could potentially
see a a trade short
here I like this fair value gy but we
also have a little bit of imbalance in
here so I want to trade in here but my
money management has to permit me to
weather a run up into this area too
remember that that's part of the rules
but in here we're going a little bit
deeper
in my YouTube channel I teach a breaker
pattern okay and that is a high a low
and a higher high that's what this
pattern is here and we're seeing that
return here so if I see a breaker like
this yes I think the market could
potentially trade up into here but I'm
going to use the breaker's candle and
just above that for my stop so I'm not
going to go way up here or way up in
here cuz my Foundation to teaching the
ICT breaker
is the Market's going to mostly stay in
the lower half of the breaker candle
which is the down down Clos candle rate
for the big move up higher taking out a
short-term High trust me the breaker is
taught in the YouTube channel in other
lessons I'm not going to pour myself
over top of lessons and regurgitate
things because there's a lot of you that
have been training with me for a long
time and you don't want to go through
that and the new people that are here I
understand your enthusiasm and you want
to know everything like a SP I get it
and I love it but trust me when I tell
you that is taught in the free lessons
in this YouTube channel okay just
remember it's a bearish breaker and that
pattern is the support structure of why
I would not expect it to have have a
higher stop up here okay so here's the
fair value got range from the
low and the high end but it's
specifically this candle's low and this
candle's high right there extend that
out in time look what happens at eight
28 the candle showing 828 here because
it's a 4minute
chart but once we're trading inside here
all I need to do is trade Above This
candle's High I want to be short I don't
want to mess around it might not give me
an opportunity to get in it might not go
higher up into that fair value guy I
want to use the easiest lowest threshold
entry technique to get in to make sure
I'm a part of the
move then I'm going to be aiming for
those relative equal lows that's that
14381 level
14381 remember that relative equal lows
I said I wish I would have put a line on
it this is the time frame I added the
line it's the 4-minute chart now if you
look real close you can see there's a
little tiny little arrow right there and
a bunch of them over
here what that is is trading views paper
trading module and I put some short on
this today to illustrate what many of
you have been asking me in trading view
comment section A lot of you send me
comments through trading View and I
apologize I don't get to them a lot
because there's a lot of them usually
that happen and I just don't get to them
I'm sorry I'm not purposely trying to
ignore you it's like telegram telegram
people send me messages there too and I
just don't I don't have time to go
through it emails absolutely I don't
have a whole lot of time to get through
because everybody wants to write a long
story to me and I appreciate them but I
just can't I can't sit there all day
long and read all
that
but the idea of showing
what a discount broker margin what what
could I do with that okay I don't
recommend it but there are Brokers out
there that will allow you to trade the
mini contract for just a couple thousand
and the micro for less than a 100 bucks
and to me that is
absolutely stupid you're asking to blow
the account in these markets you
absolutely can have your hinder Parts
handed to you in short sudden
fashion even me in the last I don't know
four weeks or so I've seen moves that
came back on my stop so fast I was like
wow just the other day I watched a 100o
Run come out of nowhere in a one minute
candle it moved 100 points in the NASDAQ
one minute that's a lot of movement man
so if you're looking at that and you're
trying to hold let's say I don't know 16
minis or eight Minis and it moves $2,000
against you in one minute folks your
stop would not have been
respected it was literally way above
your stop- loss if you were using one
okay so you would have got stopped out
with negative slippage and let's say you
were holding those eight
contracts well let's say you got burned
for 50 points in slippage and you don't
think that's possible oh it's
there 50 points just like this that's
$1,000 times your eight contracts you
just lost $88,000 and you're going to
tell me that you can open up an account
with a I don't know $10,000 whatever and
you're going to trade
multiple minis because the discount
broker allows you to and all of a sudden
you just roasted your account in one
trade and some wild little price move
that came out of nowhere that you didn't
expect and in one candle one minute
candle it just smoked your account just
like
that there's teachers out there that are
promoting the idea that that's a good
idea it's not a good idea
folks
$10,000 that's the absolute minimum and
I don't think it should be that I think
it should be a little bit higher than
that I think 15 ,000 is fair for what
the NASDAQ is doing right now because
just today
alone moved 8,000 per for one single
count contract over $88,000 in movement
for one
contract now that's you know top to
bottom and likck of you being in that
move is probably you know obviously not
likely
but the measure of risk needs to be
appreciated and respected and
unfortunately YouTube makes it a
available for anybody to come out here
and pretend to know what they're doing
and unfortunately if that person isn't
skilled if they don't really do what
they say they do or or teach proper risk
or to teach you to respect the level of
risk that's required to trade these
markets they're doing you a
disservice
and that's the number one reason why I
taught for a long time with a demo and
still teach with a demo because number
one legal reasons I'm not trying to be
held liable
because I'm not licensed to get trade
advice but it's not trade advice in a
demo account you're not making or losing
anything it's fantasy football with
price charts but you can learn how to
read price action with it this year I've
been showing you a live account that's
real I'm not teaching through that
notice that okay at the end of the year
I'm going to share with you what that
account has done I'll be 100%
transparent I will show you line by line
every single trade from every single
Trading day of every single trading week
of every month you'll see it
okay throughout the year I'm going to be
teaching lessons about certain things
and you're going to see them applied
when I share the entire history with
that account so it's more meaningful CU
there's a lot of you in the comment
sections that are trolling and I I know
what you're here for but I'm going to
give you undeniable proof just like the
rest of you that way you can see the
lessons I'm giving you yes they worked
in demo but they're actually being
utilized in live fund trading by me it's
after the fact so I cannot be accused of
giving you trade advice it's what I did
with my real
money see the difference
there it is what it is if you don't like
this teaching style there's other people
out there teaching all kinds of great
stuff doesn't mean it's profitable but
they got all kinds of neat stuff to look
at I'm teaching you how to read price
and I need you to be sober minded about
the level of risk that these markets
provide us because it can take you out
quickly so I got questioned by I don't
know six or seven of the people some of
them are actually my students in the
mentorship and others are just people
that are on the internet you I don't
know if they're just YouTube or if
they're just trading VI you people that
try to follow me on
there but they asked could I showcase
what I would do with a $10,000
hypothetical account if I was using a
discount broker in other words a broker
that would let me trade with I don't
know like $2,000 or $1,500 per contract
something to that effect for a NASDAQ
mini
contract number one it
was crazy trying to find some of those
setups because to frame the risk in it
and to do Big Lot sizes too was very
challenging but
I kept it lowend it only took me two
weeks to do this but you can see I put a
heavy-handed short up here using what
I'm teaching you here and then aiming
for there's relative equal loads which
is that
level this is my trading VI account now
you're going to hear people say this is
photoshopped oh you photoshopped this no
I did not I don't need to photoshop this
in fact my live mentorship with real
students that paid me they're going to
see me show this live and it's going to
move all around it's not edited I'm
going to log out of the account and log
back in so it's not me doing any kind of
editing it's not mt4 servers or anything
like that you can play around with it's
not ninja Trader you can go in there and
take a bad trade out make it look good
all these things here are executions
okay and you can see there's three
losing trades there on the
14th and where's you can see today's
trades all up at the top and that was me
doing a
heavy-handed a uh
Quant style heavy-handed short and then
taking partials as it was going down
into that level of
14381 looking at this this is your
classic you know the guy shows you the
results okay shows you this is what I
did with my demo account they may lie
and say it's a real account this is
clearly a paper trading account you can
see it it's there it says it right up
here paper trading okay paper trading
this is all paper money okay I started
the account with trading View at
$10,000 okay and that was on February
3rd just two weeks ago to the day okay
so two Thursdays ago I started this and
set the account to start with
$10,000 then I started trading it and
you can see the positions here with just
the NASDAQ okay I'm not doing anything
with like Forex to make it go up I'm not
trying to pull out bonds I'm not trying
to do anything like that I'm showing you
just the
NASDAQ starting with $10,000 in two
weeks using again the limitations of
well I guess I don't want to say
limitations the pseudo benefit of a
discount broker what could I do in two
weeks doing that and using what I'm
teaching you too
that's the difference I'm literally
teaching what I'm showing here I just
showed you the example of it in the
chart
before this is the
equivalent of 582 in 2 weeks now it's
hypothetically done in paper trading yes
but with the perspective of a
hypothetical discount broker margin
being used so whereas I'm trading with
tdmr trade right now and they require me
to have almost 20 $2,000 to trade one
contract I don't have a problem with
that because of the level of volatility
that's in there it just makes it easy
for me not to worry about it like I'm
not worried about it I know I got plenty
of margin I know I got plenty of equity
if I get banged by something come out of
nowhere say Russia goes into Ukraine or
China invades Taiwan or something crazy
comes out and it crosses the market to
go nuts because I expect that to be
coming anytime
now it won't smoke my account okay I'm
not gonna I'm not going to blow the
account I guarantee you this account's
not blowing okay and I'm showing in my
opinion what it would be like for
someone if they ever got to the point
where they put years into developing
their own
model now that doesn't mean you can't
find profitability before that but after
you've done it for a while and you found
your own niche of what you want to do
with the content I'm teaching you you'll
find your own Groove and once that's
done and you can formulate a well-
written
model on paper where everything is
outlined when do you buy when do you
sell where do you put your stop at when
do you move your stop how many contracts
do you trade you know what constitutes a
day where you don't take a trade all
those types of things I will teach you
those lessons in this YouTube mentorship
okay a lot of you also are very very
excited and you're like okay I I see you
doing this but I'm not really learning
anything new I'm
disappointed I'm not done you give me
those complaints after I say I'm done
okay but I'm giving you gold like this
is something that you can go out there
and turn in these markets and really
develop a skill set that could
completely change your whole entire
Direction in your life I'm not promising
profitability notice that see that I'm
not promising that I'm not promising you
a sixf figure income every year I'm not
doing that either I'm telling you that
you will love price action because it
repeats it's something
that's well it repeats and if you know
something's going to repeat it's
familiar and things that are familiar
are comfortable right now you don't know
what these patterns are likely to do
you're they're unfamiliar to you so it's
it's important for you to understand
that that's a temporary struggling point
but going through the things I'm going
to teach you to do here and I'm
streamlining it yes this doesn't feel
like streamlining to some of you you
want me to come out here and say this is
where you buy this is where you sell you
put put your stop loss right here and
this is where you take your profits and
it's always like this every single time
wash rinse repeat and it never violates
any of those rules and it's just always
the same way if you think that way just
change this channel right now don't even
come back here because that's not
reality there's going to be similarities
that look slightly different than the
last few times you took the trade but
you will recognize
them but my question to you
is if you could do
this
over a year
not two weeks would you be impressed
with yourself if you could do that would
you feel that that would be
enough some of you young guys don't
think that this is
enough and
it's amazing that type of return is
amazing if you can t if you can turn
that with a live account that's
phenomenal like that's that's wealth
making there you don't need to be that
high to make money but if you can hit
that kind of number a year over 12
months hit something like that that's
amazing and that's not even what I teach
my students to
expect and I'm not this is not bragging
I'm not trying to say look at me I can
trade a demo account look at me that's
not what I'm doing here folks okay I was
asked sincerely to
show you all hear me telling you and I'm
sh I'm showing you it's a paper trading
account because I'm not going to go into
amp or some other broker that's going to
allow me to trade with discount broker
margins I'm not going to do it I know I
know even what I know I'm going to get
smoked if I try to do something crazy
and heavy-handed because even with me
trading one contract I've had moves come
against me pretty
sudden and there was nothing I could
have done about it because the
volatility is so Fierce right now I'm
not afraid of it but I do absolutely
respect it so to
provide a answer
to the guys out there that say that yeah
you it's stupid to trade in another
account where they use the exchange rate
margins for initial margins which is
right now almost $22,000 for the NASDAQ
One Mini contract you need about
$222,000 it was about $17,604.13
listen this is for your notes okay if
they raise the
margins that's the exchange tipping
their hand to you that huge moves are
coming big monstrous moves are coming
and they just raised the margins you
think that's coincidence it's not big
moves are coming and if you're
offside it's going to get real hot in
the Underpants
but if you're on side man there ain't
nothing sweeter than that that's like
winning a lottery and these moves are
significant I mean let's go back up for
a second okay and I'll close this
video if you look at the fair value Gap
in here okay and say you're filled at
14,515 and you're aiming for 14,
381 is that 6 and a half
points no is it
20 no no is it
50 mm- is it
nope it's
more do you see a pattern here one
contract folks what I'm teaching you is
literally a ATM machine in your
hands I'm giving you the PIN numbers
every time I do a video here I'm giving
you another digit
and once you figure out what it is that
you want to do with this content and
make it part of
you and you'll see what I mean by that
right now you might see me showing you
it's like man this makes perfect sense
most of the comments that I don't allow
to be posted are just sugar sweet
diabetic coma type lovey doy comments
and I'm not making fun of that and I
appreciate I know what you mean by it
and you want to show your adoration and
respect I love
that but don't lose sight that you're
feeling that Splash over because I'm
literally taking you into the chart and
showing you what I
know and you're excited because you know
the opportunity is available to you if
you stick to this and that's the right
perspective but don't lose sight and
think that I just watch that video and
I'm going to go out there and trade
because I've had some people post in the
comment section and they try to do
something with Live accounts which I
already said no don't do that and
they're saying I I don't think these
Concepts work because I try to do this
and I tried to buy this fair value Gap
today and you know who you are and I'm
not trying to make fun of you I'm not
talking down to you but the bias is
bearish so if the bias is bearish would
you go in looking for a bullish fair
value Gap no that's that's the purpose
of having a model and in with that model
each morning before the markets even
start trading you write down what your
intentions
are what does that mean I gave you the
range right here's the opening price it
rallies up to that so inside that range
you're going to look for a set out to go
short you're bearish and if it goes down
below that low you can still take a
short if it's in this range minus this
low
okay if it leaves that area you can't
chase it I don't care how good it looks
later in the day you don't do it you
have to have discipline folks if you
don't have discipline your broker's not
going to help you with that they want
you to click that button that's how you
make money and they don't care if you
blow your account because there's going
to be 20 more to replace you because
they watch watched ICT videos they've
watched everybody else on YouTube that
try to tell you that you can do this and
it's so easy even a pizza delivery boy
can do
it so hopefully this has helped clear up
the idea of bias and power three and I
will be repeating these themes when it's
applicable in the newer videos that come
out and examples I'm going to teach with
but for
now I can't say it enough what you were
just exposed to that is the
underpinnings of what we do in my Camp
okay
ICT my students we look at Price like
that let me throw one more thing in here
just to piss off everybody that doesn't
like these long
videos let me go back up in this area
real quick and on the daily chart with
the candlesticks is what I'm looking for
here
here we go all right notice something
from this low up to this
high it's bullish okay we're expecting
bullish prices this is how you back test
you tell yourself in your annotations I
was expecting you're you're basically
lying to yourself in the in the comments
of your chart when you're back testing
it sounds foolish okay trolls are going
to love that comment coming out of my
mouth but what you're doing is is you're
teaching
yourself SU
experience it's training your
subconscious to see this stuff like you
saw it live and when you record it on
the chart in your own annotations and
you log it and you keep it in your
journal and on the weekend you go back
and look at your Monday Tuesday
Wednesday Thursday Friday and and you
look at the previous
week and you start looking at these
patterns and how it repeats over and
over again when it's bullish you're
trying to stay with the opposite of this
open near the low close near the high
but expansion to the upside so
accumulate Longs manipulate get people
thinking it's going to go lower and then
Ram it up higher distribute the Longs
near the close that's what you're
looking for here with that mindset okay
you're all afraid of but what happens if
it's a down day ICT what happens well
the worst thing it can happen is you
lose
money and if you think that you're going
to trade and not ever lose
money turning the videos off don't ever
watch anybody else's either because
that's not a proper mindset Traders are
professional losers they're managing
every trade right from the beginning
they got to come out of the costs you're
paying a commission and if you got
slipped in Forex you got to
spread every trade opens up as a loser
so a Trader is a professional management
company of losing trades they turn
losers into winners but not every loser
can be turned into a winner but they
don't lose their business because a few
never become winners it's real important
to understand that folks it's a paradigm
shift that took place when I was a
younger man I felt that there was a way
for me to always win I was convinced of
it there isn't there is no way of doing
that okay so last analogy last lesson
and the video is over if we're bullish
here okay we're expecting each candle to
expand higher so in other words the
close be higher than the opening on each
individual
candle my up candles are
green how
many black or down Clos candles do you
see in this price
run
two wow how about this price moveed here
it's going lower right going down for
the sell side here you're bearish but
what happens ICT if it goes up you'll
probably lose
money but let's count how many up closed
candle we have one two 3 four five look
how much range it
moved if you can't have a model that
weathers say you got a losing trade each
one of those days if that blows your
account you're not managing your risk
properly you're overleveraging or
overtrading see how easy that is to
deduce your
problems it's simple stuff folks but
you're you're scaring yourself
you're overthinking things you're
listening to me talk about multiple
Concepts that will come together in a
few weeks but you're overthinking
everything and you're trying to assume
just because you watched a few videos
and you're thinking foolishly that just
by watching a few of these videos we're
only in episode
10 10 episodes and some of you think you
can go out there and own the world
now I understand it's empowering
information if you've never been in uced
to it but you're not going to own the
world up to episode 10 okay you're not
going to do that you're going to lose
money if you go out there and try to
rush to try to do this stuff there's a
lot of things we still have to cover and
you haven't even back tested enough I
haven't even been teaching it long
enough on YouTube for you to even have a
backlog of data to draw experience from
so think about that okay trust me when I
tell you folks these moves repeat all
the time all the time and don't feel
like you're missing out because you're
not doing it right
now put that feeling aside make this fun
while you're learning it and it'll never
feel like a job or a tedious task that's
going to be it for this one hopefully it
was insightful to you and until I'll
talk to you next Tuesday enjoy your
weekend and be safe